---
layout: blog
category: blog
title: "Manchester"
date: "2004-10-25T01:31:43+00:00"
tags: ["all", "general"]
atomid: tag:benward.me,2004-10-25:/blog/manchester
---
I had my first weekend in Manchester for about 4 months last week. It's been wonderful to be honest. I love the city, and seeing my housemates from the past two years was really, really nice. I know a lot of students spread themselves around and live with different sets of people in each of their years, but I've been lucky with the people I met and lived with Ack, Ric, Mike, Sean and Gary for two. 
Visiting again was strange, in that I fitted straight in again, as if I'd never been away. I guess the saying is true: You don't realise what you've got until it's 300 miles away and you go visit. Or maybe I made that saying up. Regardless, it's true though.

Joined Ack for his 21st birthday party. Enjoyed his drunken shenanigans very much. Then played football with him and his friends on Saturday afternoon before spending 7 solid hours out on t'town. While I tend to get sick of indie clubs if I go every week, <a href="http://www.42ndstreetnightclub.com/" title="42nd Street Nightclub, Manchester">42nd Street</a> was a euphoric experience after 4 months of alt.stalvation. The Libertines are cool, Kasabian goes down really well and <cite>The Killers</cite> 'All These Things That I've Done' refrain of "I've got soul, but I'm not a soldier" is joyous.

All that's left to do now I'm back is clean the 'red vodka shit' out of my hair (and wash the associated shirt)... For those confused: Mancunians (and pretend Mancunians like me) <em>really</em> go for <cite>Joy Divison</cite>'s 'Love Will Tear Us Apart', regardless of how many drinks you and the dozen other people you're hugging may be holding at the time.

... I love that city. It's home from home right now.
