---
layout: blog
category: blog
title: "Some weaksauce low-balls at Microsoft's ‘PC vs. Mac’ campaign"
date: "2010-08-10T00:07:00+0000"
original_service: tumblr
original_url: "http://blog.benward.me/post/929191711/some-weaksauce-low-balls-at-microsofts-pc-vs-mac"
tumblr_post_type: text
atomid: "http://blog.benward.me/post/929191711/some-weaksauce-low-balls-at-microsofts-pc-vs-mac"
---
[Pitiful](http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windows-7/compare/pc-vs-mac.aspx) exercise in FUD that at best pushes a set of edge-case features, but mostly just whines about what a ‘hassle’ it might be to move to a Mac.

> With a Mac, it's harder to set up secure sharing for your photos, music & movies, documents, and even printers with other computers on your home network. With HomeGroup, it's easy to connect all the computers in your house running Windows 7.

To share music on a Mac: Open iTunes.  
To share photos on a Mac: Open iPhoto.  
To share any kinds of files on a Mac: Open "Sharing". Press the "<abbr title="add">+</abbr>" button.

I don't really know what's easier than that? Maybe Windows just automatically emails your shit to random people without you pressing anything? Oh, right.

> With PCs running Windows 7, you can play the videos and music stored on your home PC while you're on the go, for free. Apple charges $99/year for its online service.

This is an odd one. Ripping on the cost of MobileMe is fair game, but, erm, it doesn't actually do any of that remote video/music stuff. Jesus, it would be _awesome_ if MobileMe did that (especially since Google killed SimplifyMedia.)

> You can't get a Mac with a Blu-ray player, TV tuner, Memory Stick reader, or built-in 3G wireless. PCs running Windows 7 often come with features that aren't available on even the highest end Macs, including Blu-ray, eSATA, multi-format card readers, Touch, and mobile broadband.

Sure. If you want. I assume by ‘Memory Stick’ you mean the Sony proprietary flash storage, right? Because I've got an industry standard SD card slot right here where you can stick it. Well, not the memory card, obviously; it's a different shape. But ‘it’, figuratively.

> Your spreadsheets might not calculate correctly.

FEAR!

> _If_ there's a Mac version of a program you need, you'll have to buy it again and relearn how to use it on a Mac.

UNCERTAINTY!

> For example, the mouse works differently. And many of the shortcuts you're familiar with don't work the same way on a Mac.

DOUBT!

Also, the mouse works _differently_? I've been rubbing it on my face. Is that wrong?

> Macs only come in white or silver. PCs are available in a full spectrum of colors

“All right, you know what? Fine. Mac OSX has got us boned. Microsoft would totally buy a Mac too, if only there was a blue one. Do you like blue? Blue is our favourite colour. We like it so much we made Microsoft Office pretty much entirely blue. It's as if your eyes have stopped responding to medium and long-wave light.”