---
layout: blog
category: blog
date: "2009-01-20T02:09:25+0000"
tags:
  - "Florence and the Manchine"
  - "music"
  - "concerts"
  - "events"
original_service: tumblr
original_url: "http://blog.benward.me/post/71683232/florence-is-a-twenty-one-year-old-art-college"
tumblr_post_type: quote
atomid: "http://blog.benward.me/post/71683232/florence-is-a-twenty-one-year-old-art-college"
---
> Florence is a twenty one year-old art college drop-out from Camberwell, South London, a long pretty pale girl who makes up songs and sings them. The Machine is whoever’s standing nearby playing an instrument at the time. It’s a bit harder to define, the machine part. It’s just not exactly a person. It’s a sort of a machine. She’s been singing since pretty much forever. She was in the school choir, a few dodgy bands, had vocal lessons and such. She has all the necessary paperwork if you want to see it. 
> 
> If you see her sing live you’ll forget paperwork and forget your name and maybe forget to breathe for a little while. Florence has a voice hewn from the rock and stamped in the gravel and shot out of a cannon into the middle of your chest. It cuts right into you and thrums. She also has almost as much stage presence as Hitler. She’s like a funny sexy popstar Hitler without the despotism and with more beautiful songs and the utmost love and respect for Jews and gays and gypsies. 

<cite><a href="http://www.eatyourownears.com/">Eat Your Own Ears</a> email description of Florence and the Machine.</cite>

I ♥ Florence. She's playing a headline show in London in May, you should go see if you can!

<p class='vevent'><span class='summary'>Florence & The Machine</span> at <span class='location vcard'><span class='fn org'>Bloomsbury Ballroom</span>, <span class='extended-address'>Victoria House</span>, <span class='street-address'>37–63 Bloomsbury Square</span>, <span class='locality'>London</span> <span class='postal-code'>WC1B</span></span>, <span class='dtstart'>2009-05-27</span>.</p>

Tickets are on sale tomorrow. Despite being in America, I'm almost tempted to buy some anyway, just in case I can coincide a trip home or a conference or something.