---
layout: blog
category: blog
title: "Layout 2005"
date: "2009-02-22T11:39:00+0000"
original_service: tumblr
original_url: "http://blog.benward.me/post/80452209/layout-2005"
tumblr_post_type: text
atomid: "http://blog.benward.me/post/80452209/layout-2005"
---
All this talk of CSS layout modules.

I'm currently digging through archive directories on my hard disc as I migrate between machines. So much stuff I'd forgotten about. Some of it deeply personally and sort-of upsetting to discover I hadn't deleted, other things are like this.; my lead-by-code-sample proposition for something that I can only assume was called ‘Cascading Style Layout’. Which is the wrong name for it, because it's XML and there's no cascade. 

Shows what I know, but then again, _I wrote this in *2005*_. I don't think it was ever published, so for posterity and beard stroking in this ‘CSS sucks’ climate, here's how I though we should do advanced layout with CSS four years ago:

    <grid columns="3" rows="2">
        <row>
            <region name="header" width="100%" columnspan="2" />
        </row>
        <row>
            <region name="main-nav" width="3em" />
            <region name="content">
                <float name="inset" position="top right" />
            </region>
        </row>
        <row>
            <region name="footer" />
        </row>
    </grid>`

The rules I'd documented were pretty simple:

  * Regions automatically fill all available space, unless specified otherwise (e.g. region[@width] defaults to "auto")
  * Region height always fills all available vertical space (unless specified, in which case all other regions fill vertical space) ala an HTML table - the element mapped to  will automatically fill all available vertical space.
  * Regions/Rows themselves cannot be styled.
  * a <row /> may not overlap another row.
  * Fixed, absolute position etc. works exactly the same as it does today.

Mapping an element to a region was simple:

    #my .element {
       position: grid(region-name);
    }

It's interesting with retrospect. In most respects it's a fairly simple mapping of familiar `table` element properties into a standalone syntax, switching to ‘grids’ nomenclature (something I [still advocate](http://micro.ben-ward.co.uk/post/79626470)).

On the other hand, I don't quite understand some of the restrictions I put forward. ‘<q>Regions/Rows themselves cannot be styled</q>’? I wonder why? Especially since the first thing I do is slap `width` attributes on everything. I think I intended each `region` to map 1:1 with an element on the page (disallowing assigning multiple elements to a `region`), so you'd just style the element itself. Looking now, it seems far more useful to set a background colour on a region and add multiple elements to it, something like:

    @grid(advertisments) {
        background: #eee;
        padding: 5px;
    }
    #google-ad {
        position: grid(advertisments);
    }
    #textlink-ad {
        position: grid(advertisments);
    }

The `float` element was to allow layout blocks that text can wrap around, like the float property, but more powerful, such that you can position it as with `background-position`: `top left`, `top center`, `20px 50%` and so on.

The last thing I did was create a copy of my sample file and give it the extension `csl`, so I presume I was intending these XML layouts to be attached to HTML alongside a stylesheet, or perhaps imported from within CSS.

    <link rel='layout' href='/css/grid.csl' media='screen'>

Or:

    @import url(/css/grid.csl);

Again, this is something I wrote in _2005_. I'm sure it wouldn't come out the same way if I wrote it today, but if someone turned around and told me this is how I was to build websites from now on, I wouldn't protest. Oh no, wait, I'd protest at using `name` attributes in place of `id`.